
.
%NONTEX% = OPTIONS =
%TEX% \ifman
%% #HEADSTART##############################################################
%% #
%% #PROJECT:      UnifiedTraceAndLogManager
%% #AUTHOR:       Arno-Can Uestuensoez - acue.opensource@gmail.com
%% #MAINTAINER:   Arno-Can Uestuensoez - acue.opensource@gmail.com
%% #SHORT:        utalm-bash
%% #LICENSE:      Apache-2.0 + CCL-BY-SA-3.0
%% #VERSION:      03_03_001
%% #
%% ########################################################################
%% #
%% #   Copyright [2007,2008,2010,2013] Arno-Can Uestuensoez
%% #
%% #   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
%% #   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
%% #   You may obtain a copy of the License at
%% #
%% #     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
%% #
%% #   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
%% #   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
%% #   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
%% #   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
%% #   limitations under the License.
%% #
%% #HEADEND################################################################
%%
%%$Header$

%TEX% \section{OPTIONS}
%TEX% \else
%TEX% \section{OPTIONS}
%TEX% \fi
%%
%%$Header$
%%

%HTML% -LT-a name="optd" /-GT-
%TEX% : **-d <debug-args>**
%NONTEX% ===-d <debug-args> ===
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \addtoUTALMManToc{subsubsection}{-d <debug-levels>}
%TEX% \else
%TEX% \addtotoc{subsubsection}{-d <args>}
%TEX% \label{it:optd}
%TEX% \fi
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-

Sets the level, range, and appearence of debug output. Could be altered to any option
instead of **'-d'**, but the suboptions may not be changed.

For the overview refer to the above figure with options and their syntax definitions.

 - **<debug-bit-array>[,(PATTERN|P)|MIN|MAX]**

%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{<debug-bit-array>}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
  The debug output could be controlled by one of two basic styles, the
  level-mode(MIN|MAX) or the match-mode(PATTERN).
  - **level-mode(MIN|MAX)**
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
    The level-mode sets a threshold from which on(MIN), or up to
    which(MAX) a trace output is displayed.
    The switch-on value has to be increment one above the destination
    output level.
  - **match-mode(PATTERN)**
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
    The match mode displays trace only by bitwise AND operation.

: _

The debug mode value could be provided in any bash supported notation,
  but only 32bit arrays should be used.
```
[(LEVEL|L):]<debug-bit-array>=2#(0|1){1,32}|[0-9]*|<any-bash-format-32bit>
```

%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
The following variables are predefined to be used for levels and pattern.
The variable name could be used alternatively for suboptions.
In general a value could be provided in one of the following representations:
```
  D_UI or UI or 1
```

 - **ERRORS**:
The following levels and bitpatterns ar eprovided for error log configuration.
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{ERRORS}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
  Traced independently and in any case.
  - **D_UI=1=2#1**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_UI=1}
  Common UserInterface. 
  - **D_FLOW=2=2#10**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_FLOW=2}
  Common UserInterfaceExtended, call flow.
  - **D_UID=4=2#100**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_UID=4}
  Common UserInterfaceDebug, draft data collection.
  - **D_DATA=8=2#1000**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_DATA=8}
  Detailed data processing.
  - **D_MAINT=16=2#10000=16#10**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_MAINT=16}
  Maintenance, details of attribute evaluation.
  - **D_FRAME=32=2#100000=16#20**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_FRAME=32}
  Traces the framework.
  - **D_SYS=64=2#1000000=16#40**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_SYS=64}
  Traces system calls encapsulated by "callErrOutWrapper".
  Particularly useful for evaluating the required root-permissions for
  "ksu" and/or "sudo".
  - **D_TESTDEBUG=16384=2#100000000000000=16#4000**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_TESTDEBUG=16384}
  Traces sync-points for regression tests.
  - **D_BULK=32768=2#1000000000000000=16#8000**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_BULK=32768}
  This is the the haystack.

 - Generic Values:
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{Generic Values}
%TEX% \ \\
  Values to be used for multiple categories.
  - **D_ALL**=4294967296=16#ffffffff
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{D_ALL=4294967296}
    This activates all.


 - **(SUBSYSTEM|S):<subsystem-bit-array>**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{SUBSYSTEM}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
 Subsystems as match-mode bitr array.
``` <subsystem-bit-array>=2#(0|1){1,32}|[0-9]*|<any-bash-format-32-bit>
The following variables are predefined to be used for subsystems.
  - **S_CONF**=1
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_CONF=1}
  - **S_BIN**=2
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_BIN=2}
  - **S_LIB**=4
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_LIB=4}
  - **S_CORE**=8
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_CORE=8}
  - **S_GEN**=16
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_GEN=16}
  - **S_CLI**=32
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_CLI=32}
  - **S_X11**=64
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_X11=64}
  - **S_VNC**=128
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_VNC=128}
  - **S_QEMU**=256
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_QEMU=256}
  - **S_VMW**=512
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_VMW=512}
  - **S_XEN**=1024
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_XEN=1024}
  - **S_PM**=2048
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{S_PM=2048}


 - **(WARNING|W):[0-9]**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{WARNING}
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{LEVEL=0-9}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
  Warnings to be displayed, level-mode only and no subsystem.
  "0" switches off.
  The switch-on value has to be increment one above the destination
  output level.
 - **(INFO|I):[0-9]**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{INFO}
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{LEVEL=0-9}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
  Info to be displayed, level-mode only and no subsystem.
  "0" switches off.
  The switch-on value has to be increment one above the destination
  output level.
 - **(FILELIST|F):<file-list>[,(EXCLUDE|INCLUDE)]**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{FILELIST}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
  A list of files to be included exclusively or excluded.
  The names are matched with the presented string on output 
```
$(bootstrapGetRealPathname $CURRENTFILEPARAM) "string-in" <files-in-file-list>
```
  where due to performance reasons a simple pattern-match is performed
  only.
  For the same reason the EXCLUDE and INCLUDE keywords are applied to the whole
  set at once.
``` <file-list>=<file>[%<file-list>]

 - **(PRINTFINAL|PFIN)[:[0-9]]**
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{paragraph}{PRINTFINAL}
%TEXMAN% \addtotoc{subparagraph}{LEVEL=0-9}
%TEX% \ \\
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
Prints final call assembly as passed to the execution interface and wait-points.
In case of a wrapper script, the pre-wrapper-script and the final pre-execution 
assembly within the wrapper-script are displayed.
In case of a wrapper-script the displayed call string could be used from the command 
line by cut-and-paste for debugging purposes.
%TEX% \ \\

LEVEL defines the granularity, where by convention the LEVEL==0 represents the ultimate 
final call.
This could be in some cases an internal library call with a bulk of
subcalls of minor interest, but by definition is the final CLI execution.
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-
%TEX% \ \\
%TEX% \ \\



