
.
%NONTEX% = NAME =
%NONTEX% **MYTITLE**
%% #HEADSTART##############################################################
%% #
%% #PROJECT:      UnifiedTraceAndLogManager
%% #AUTHOR:       Arno-Can Uestuensoez - acue.opensource@gmail.com
%% #MAINTAINER:   Arno-Can Uestuensoez - acue.opensource@gmail.com
%% #SHORT:        utalm-bash
%% #LICENCE:      Apache-2.0
%% #VERSION:      03_02_002
%% #
%% ########################################################################
%% #
%% #   Copyright [2007,2008,2010,2013] Arno-Can Uestuensoez
%% #
%% #   Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
%% #   you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
%% #   You may obtain a copy of the License at
%% #
%% #     http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
%% #
%% #   Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
%% #   distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
%% #   WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
%% #   See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
%% #   limitations under the License.
%% #
%% #HEADEND################################################################
%%
%%$Header$
%%
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \section{NAME}
%TEX% **MYTITLE**
%TEX% \else
%TEX% \newpage
%TEX% \section{MYCALL}
%TEX% \label{s:MYCALL}
%TEX% \fi
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-

%NONTEX% = SYNTAX =
%HTML%  -LT-br /-GT- 
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \section{SYNTAX}
%TEX% \else
%TEX% \large\textbf{MYCALL}
%TEX% \fi
%VERBATIMBEG
%!include(wiki): ''syntax.t2t''
%!include(tex): ''syntax.t2t''
%!include(txt): ''syntax.t2t''
%!include(man): ''syntax.t2t''
%!include(html): ""syntax.t2t""
%VERBATIMEND
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-

%NONTEX% = DESCRIPTION =
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \section{DESCRIPTION}
%TEX% \fi
Modern software systems and application are commonly written in multiple languages, include scripting engines, and are frequently build on
multiple specialized frameworks and middleware for a considerable diversity of runtime environments.
The latest influencing update in development paradigm is the application of multicore processors.
This projects is aimed to unify the required trace and logging output and integrate into debugging environments.
The target is to provide general developement, test, and production support of software environments based
on multiple programming languages for distributed multicore environments.


This package **UnifiedTraceAndLogManager-bash** contains the support for bash scripting, refer to versions and variants for additional options.

The main logging and debugging library of the **utalm-bash** for **bash** support is called **libutalm.sh** provides for internal control as well as for command line call integration by default via **-d <debug-suboptions>** option.
A number of suboptions control the behaviour and scope of than activated debugging and logging.
This ranges from debug levels - either by numeric or symbolic names - for various severities with specific level adjustment - **DEBUG**, **INFO**, **WARNING**, and **ERROR**.
Where the severities are colored by default for ANSI terminal emulation.
In addition some enhanced features like tracing within specific files and line-ranges is supported.
The log records and control of output could be controlled widely by call parameters.
The debugging also integrates seamless into the syslog.

This document is related to the **bash** edition.



%NONTEX% == History and Origin ==
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \section{History and Origin}
%TEX% \fi

This project is a spin-off from the OpenSource project **UnifiedSessionsManager** available since 02/2008.
For the original implementation refer to the contained library **lib/base.h** and to the generic options
of **utalm.sh**.

%TEX% //UnifiedSessionsManager.org//

%HTML% //UnifiedSessionsManager.org [ http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org ] - Sourceforge.net [ http://sourceforge.net/projects/utalm/files/utalm/ ]// 
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-

%MAN% **UnifiedSessionsManager.org** [ http://www.UnifiedSessionsManager.org ]

%MAN% **Sourceforge.net** [ http://sourceforge.net/projects/utalm/files/utalm/ ]

%NONTEX% == Versions and Variants ==
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \section{Versions and Variants}
%TEX% \fi
The main feature is the support of a common interface
for the debugging and logging of operational data in an
environment of multiple programmning languages.
The emphasis is here on distributed environments.

In addition to this version - **bash** with distributed multiprocessing support, on Linux, BSD, Solaris, and Cygwin/Windows, 
the following variants for Linux, BSD, MS-Windows(TM), and MacOS(TM) are either available, in process, or planned:
Python(2.7), Ruby, C/C++, Java, JavaScript, Perl, MySQL, SQLite, Scala, Erlang, ...

The project is hosted at:

%TEX% //UnifiedTraceAndLogManager at Sourceforge.net//
%HTML% //UnifiedTraceAndLogManager at **Sourceforge.net** [ http://sourceforge.net/projects/utalm/ ] -  **github** [ https://github.com/ArnoCan/utalm ]//
%MAN% **UnifiedTraceAndLogManager at github** [ https://github.com/ArnoCan/UnifiedTraceAndLogManager ]
%TEX% //UnifiedTraceAndLogManager at github//
%MAN% **UnifiedTraceAndLogManager at github** [ https://github.com/ArnoCan/UnifiedTraceAndLogManager ]
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-


%NONTEX% == Basics ==
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \subsection{Basics}
%TEX% The most important aspects for the application of utalm are:
%TEX% \fi
%%%HTML% -LT-H2-GT-Basics-LT-/H2-GT-

%NONTEX% === Installation and Setup ===
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \subsection{Installation and Setup}
%TEX% \else
%TEX% \subsection{Installation and Setup}
%TEX% \fi
%%%HTML% -LT-H3-GT-Installation and Setup-LT-/H3-GT-
The installation formats supported are tgz, rpm, and deb.
Because the library is a developer tool, some preassumptions for the knowledge of users are made.
The simplest installation is by tgz - tar-gzip - format, where the included **install.sh**
script installs the libraray and required **core** and **bootstrap** components in the users 
home directory.

The created directories are depicted in the following figure, these are
used commonly for all spin-offs from the USM and other projects by the
author in the same manner.

```
   $HOME
     |
     +-bin
        +-bootstrap
        +-core
     +-conf
     +-doc
        +de
        +en
     +-help
        +en
     +-lib
        +-bootstrap
        +-core

```
The **bootstrap** and **core** subdirectories of **bin** and **lib** contain the lowest level of required 
runtime calls, which are required to set internal variables. An example is the operations system, which is 
used for several mediation decisions within the code like using appropriate paths and system call variants.

Another deeper directory tree is the doc directory tree, which contains the documents in the formats 
**MAN**, **PDF**, and **HTML**.
```
   $HOME
     |
     +-doc
        +en
          +images
          +-html
            +-man1
            +-man7
          +-pdf
            +-man1
            +-man7
          +-man
            +-man1
            +-man7

```
The **MANPATH** variable should be set as 
```
export MANPATH=${MANPATH}:$HOME/doc/en/man
```
or
```
export MANPATH=${MANPATH}:$HOME/doc/de/man
```

%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-


%NONTEX% === Configuration ===
%TEX% \ifman
%TEX% \subsection{Configuration}
%TEX% \else
%TEX% \subsection{Configuration}
%TEX% \fi
%%%HTML% -LT-H3-GT-Configuration-LT-/H3-GT-
The preset default values of internal shell variables could be changed by environment variables, refer to the code. The standard pattern for this **bash** version is
```

	MYVARNAME=${MYVARNAME:-<default-value>}

```
could be changed by configuration files
and environment variables.
The configuration files are installed by default within **$HOME/conf** directory tree.
%HTML% -LT-br /-GT-

